Add documentation for DAML script and bundle it in the SDK (#3527)
digital-asset/daml: docs/source/daml-script/index.rst

.. Copyright (c) 2019 The DAML Authors. All rights reserved.
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

DAML Script
###########

**WARNING:** DAML Script is an experimental feature that is actively
being designed and is *subject to breaking changes*.
We welcome feedback about DAML script on
`our issue tracker <https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/issues/new?milestone=DAML+Script>`_
or `on Slack <https://hub.daml.com/slack/>`_.

DAML scenarios provide a simple API for experimenting with DAML models

> and getting quick feedback in DAML studio. However, scenarios are run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and getting quick feedback in DAML Studio. However, scenarios are run
```

in a special process and do not interact with an actual ledger. This
means that you cannot use scenarios to test other ledger clients,
e.g., your UI or :doc:`DAML triggers </triggers/index>`.

> DAML script addresses this problem by providing you with an API with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DAML Script addresses this problem by providing you with an API with
```
I think we should do this consistently.

the simplicity of DAML scenarios and all the benefits such as being
able to reuse your DAML types and logic while running against an
actual ledger. This means that you can use it to test automation

> logic, your UI but also for ledger initialization where scenarios

Reviewer: ```suggestion
logic and your UI. DAML Script can also be used for ledger initialization on all ledger implementations.
```
It took me a while to understand the sentence. I don't think it's really necessary to mention here that scenarios can be used to initialize the sandbox. IMO, it is more likely to cause confusion rather than really help the documentation of DAML Script.

cannot be used (with the exception of :doc:`/tools/sandbox`).

Usage
=====

> Our example for this tutorial consists of 2 templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our example for this tutorial consists of two templates.
```

First, we have a template called ``Coin``:

.. literalinclude:: ./template-root/src/ScriptExample.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- COIN_TEMPLATE_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- COIN_TEMPLATE_END

This template represents a coin issued to ``owner`` by ``issuer``.
``Coin`` has both the ``owner`` and the ``issuer`` as signatories.

Second, we have a template called ``CoinProposal``:

.. literalinclude:: ./template-root/src/ScriptExample.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- COIN_PROPOSAL_TEMPLATE_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- COIN_PROPOSAL_TEMPLATE_END

``CoinProposal`` is only signed by the ``issuer`` and it provides a

> single ``Accept`` choice which, when exercised by the controller will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
single ``Accept`` choice to the ``owner``, which will create the corresponding ``Coin`` when exercised.
```

create the corresponding ``Coin``.

Having defined the templates, we can now move on to write DAML scripts

> that operate on these templates. To get accees to the API used to implement DAML scripts, you need to add the ``daml-script``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that operate on these templates. In order to use DAML Script, you need to add the ``daml-script``
```

library to the ``dependencies`` field in ``daml.yaml``.

.. literalinclude:: ./template-root/daml.yaml.template
   :start-after: # script-dependencies-begin
   :end-before: # script-dependencies-end

> In addition to that you also need to import the ``Daml.Script`` module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to that, you also need to import the ``Daml.Script`` module.
```

> and since DAML script provides ``submit`` and ``submitMustFail``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since DAML script provides ``submit`` and ``submitMustFail``
```

functions that collide with the ones used in scenarios, we need to
hide those. We also enable the ``ApplicativeDo`` extension. We will
see below why this is useful.

.. literalinclude:: ./template-root/src/ScriptExample.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- DAML_SCRIPT_HEADER_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- DAML_SCRIPT_HEADER_END

> Since on an actual ledger parties cannot be arbitrary strings, we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since parties cannot be arbitrary strings on an actual ledger, we
```

define a record containing all the parties that we will use in our
script so that we can easily swap them out.

.. literalinclude:: ./template-root/src/ScriptExample.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- LEDGER_PARTIES_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- LEDGER_PARTIES_END

> Let us now write a function to initialize the ledger with 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us now write a function to initialize the ledger with three
```

> ``CoinProposal``s and accept 2 of them. This function takes the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``CoinProposal``s and accept two of them. This function takes the
```

> ``LedgerParties`` as an argument and return something of type ``Script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``LedgerParties`` as an argument and returns a ``Script
```

> ()`` which is DAML script’s equivalent of ``Scenario ()``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
()``, which is DAML Script’s equivalent of ``Scenario ()``.
```

.. literalinclude:: ./template-root/src/ScriptExample.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- INITIALIZE_SIGNATURE_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- INITIALIZE_SIGNATURE_END

First we create the proposals. To do so, we use the ``submit``
function to submit a transaction. The first argument is the party
submitting the transaction. In our case, we want all proposals to be
created by the bank so we use ``parties.bank``. The second argument

> must be of type ``Commands a`` so in our case ``Commands (ContractId

Reviewer: ```suggestion
must be of type ``Commands a``. In our case that becomes ``Commands (ContractId
```

CoinProposal, ContractId CoinProposal, ContractId CoinProposal)``

> corresponding to the 3 proposals that we create. ``Commands`` is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
corresponding to the three proposals that we create. ``Commands`` is
```

similar to ``Update`` which is used in the ``submit`` function in
scenarios. However, ``Commands`` requires that the individual commands
do not depend on each other. This matches the restriction on the
Ledger API where a transaction consists of a list of commands.  Using
``ApplicativeDo`` we can still use ``do``-notation as long as we

> respect this. In ``Commands`` we use ``createCmd`` instead of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
respect this restriction. In ``Commands`` we use ``createCmd`` instead of
```

``create`` and ``exerciseCmd`` instead of ``exercise``.

.. literalinclude:: ./template-root/src/ScriptExample.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- INITIALIZE_PROPOSAL_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- INITIALIZE_PROPOSAL_END

> Now that we have created the ``CoinProposal``s, we want ``Alice`` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating the ``CoinProposal``s, we want ``Alice`` and
```

``Bob`` to accept the proposal while the ``Bank`` will ignore the
proposal that it has created for itself. To do so we use separate
``submit`` statements for ``Alice`` and ``Bob`` and call
``exerciseCmd``.

.. literalinclude:: ./template-root/src/ScriptExample.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- INITIALIZE_ACCEPT_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- INITIALIZE_ACCEPT_END

Finally, we call ``pure ()`` on the last line of our script to match
the type ``Script ()``.

.. literalinclude:: ./template-root/src/ScriptExample.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- INITIALIZE_PURE_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- INITIALIZE_PURE_END

> We have now defined a way to initialize the ledger so we can write a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Up to here, we have defined a way to initialize the ledger. Next, we will write a
```

> test that checks that the contracts that we expect exist afterwards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
test that checks that the contracts we expect to exist do actually exist.
```

> First, we define the signature of our test. We will create the parties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To this end, we first define the signature of our test. We will create the parties
```

used here in the test, so it does not take any arguments.

.. literalinclude:: ./template-root/src/ScriptExample.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- TEST_SIGNATURE_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- TEST_SIGNATURE_END

Now, we create the parties using the ``allocateParty`` function. This
uses the party management service to create new parties with the given
display name. Note that the display name does not identify a party
uniquely. If you call ``allocateParty`` twice with the same display

> name, it will create 2 different parties. This is very convenient for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
name, it will create two different parties. This is very convenient for
```

testing since a new party cannot see any old contracts on the ledger

> so using new parties for each test removes the need to reset the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hence, using new parties for each test removes the need to reset the ledger between tests.
```
